---
title: "Female Shooters and Toxic Masculinity"
description: "A Serious Topic ft. The Rock"
author: "myself"
---

## Is toxic masculinity still relevant? 
This week at the YouTube headquarters, 3 people were killed at the hands of a shooter motivated by anger toward the company. Fear, terror, and panic rang for the 57th time in 2018. This time, the weapon was in the hands of a woman. 
So if women can be shooters too, then toxic masculinity is a ridiculous concept, right? Well, 2% of mass shooters are women. But let’s ignore that for the sake of an argument.
Left-leaning opinion leaders have touted “toxic masculinity” as a component of the male-dominated shooter profile. Others fear that this ‘war on masculinity’ is damaging our boys, instilling in them a fear of their own confidence. Let’s differentiate between healthy confidence and the toxicity of our culture’s masculine perspective of power.
As every good op-ed does, we’re going to analyze The Rock. One look at the beast of a human will scream masculinity: massive muscles, tattoos, a shaved head, and a history of wrestling would make him a man’s man any day, from Ancient Greece to the Jersey Shore. But also, read [this] (https://www.theguardian.com/film/2018/apr/03/crying-constantly-dwayne-the-rock-johnson-reveals-teen-depression-battle)  interview of The Rock on crying and depression. Next, watch this adorable video of The Rock talking to his daughter. 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/H0Wq5LApxCQ" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

American culture celebrates a powerful man—a buff, intelligent, controlling, dominant man that doesn’t cry or feel but reasons with his mind. Those crying out against toxic masculinity see the concept as an attack on male nature. Rather, it’s targeting the idea that male success is different. That it’s characterized by destruction and that that’s okay. 
The movement celebrates raising children to explore independence and find the balance between femininity and masculinity. Boys are allowed to feel powerful. Boys are allowed to explore confidence and responsibility, just as girls are encouraged to do. This isn’t an attack on men. Masculine traits are invaluable for men and for women. Without traditional masculinity, we wouldn’t have The Rock. 
What becomes toxic is the added elements of entitlement and dominance (toxic personality traits in any human). If you see “toxic masculinity” as a surefire way to create weak boys, then your definition of responsible power needs a closer look. Likewise, if you excuse toxic behavior in your boys as a result of their gender, then you’re part of the problem.
## Let’s define healthy character traits separately from gender, and then maybe—just maybe—we can all be a little bit more like The Rock.
