---
title: "Vice News: News at all?
description: "An Opinion on Vice's New Tactics"
author: "by me"
---
### Vice News Tonight celebrated its 100th episode of millennial-targeted news about a year ago. I've still got thoughts on it now.
There’s a solid chance you haven’t heard of Vice News Tonight (I hadn’t either), but this may be because it’s on HBO, so it’s a bit harder to access than most news channels. After reading about it, though, I think it may just be worth the extra effort. Here’s why. 
<br> <br>
Vice News Tonight has no news anchors. According to creator, Josh Tyrangiel, “There is something inauthentic about it, OK? … The audience knows they didn’t write all the stuff they’re reading. They certainly didn’t report all the stuff that they’re tossing to. Why would you insert any modicum of inauthenticity into it before you even start?” (http://www.adweek.com/tvnewser/why-vice-news-tonight-doesnt-feature-an-anchor/324482).
<br><br>
Tyrangiel—yes. As a millennial, I support you wholeheartedly. As I see it, there are plenty of experts who can give me information on topics better than a news anchor. In an age where long-distance interviews and video sharing are so easy to access, why do we still bother with the middle man? Give me the expert—I know they’re there, and I would much rather hear it from them than only have them write what the anchor reads off a teleprompter. 
<br> <br>
Sure, a news anchor is a pretty, familiar face that helps with branding. I get that. It’s nice to tune in every evening to a virtual friend. But look at it from our perspective: we do that constantly. With YouTube personalities or celebrities and politicians on Twitter, we’re used to getting information directly from the source with a quick scroll. The modern Internet gives every individual the platform to speak directly to an audience, so now our “virtual friends” are the experts themselves. 
<br><br>
Vice News Tonight understands. In the first few weeks, they did “very, very well on digital” according to the CEO of HBO, and I can certainly see why (http://variety.com/2016/digital/news/vice-news-tonight-audience-size-1201899892/). But I do have some concerns. There’s always risk of polarization when a news organization seeks to cater to a niche audience. In fact, there are two theories of communication that explain why this is so dangerous.
<br><br>
First of all, the Uses and Gratification Theory asserts that we will seek out information that satisfies our own preconceptions. Essentially, we want to find what we already agree with. Second of all, the Agenda Setting Theory states that the media we consume have the power to control what we think about, even if it doesn’t necessarily tell us what to think. As always, keep in mind that companies will always want to cater to their audience so they can keep making money. Now we can see why it would be very easy for Vice News Tonight to quickly become a one-sided argument because of their relatively homogenous audience. 
<br><br>
So, in short, congrats to Vice News Tonight for making nightly news accessible and engaging to a new generation of aware citizens. But be careful of the bubble.
