---
title: "Being Gay is an Obscenity? YouTube Says Yes."
description: "Looking into the forgotten choices made by the online video superpower"
author: "by myself"
---
### About a year ago, YouTube included all content created by all LGBTQ+ creators as “restricted content.” No one seems to remember, so I'm here to talk about it. 
The very platform that has given voice to a new generation of liberated youth has created a button to put them on mute. 
<br><br>
On YouTube, there are two settings: “Don’t Filter” and “Strict.” These are supposed to weed out the inappropriate videos with explicit sexual, violent or foul-mouthed content. With this new update, popular LGBTQ+ YouTubers have been added to that list. 
<br><br>
As soon as my Twitter feed started to blow up, I went to my own YouTube account and decided to fiddle around with the settings to see just what would be removed from my feed before I got too caught up in the classic case of Panicked Internet Commotion. I clicked on “Strict,” and went back to my normal list of makeup tutorials, and suddenly every male makeup artist was gone. 
<br><br>
These aren’t videos that push any agenda or promote any sexual orientation—these are professional makeup artists (that happen to be gay men), and their tutorials were censored as obscene content. And this was just in my subscriptions. 
<br><br>
YouTube has a history of being one of the more progressive social media platforms, producing original content to celebrate love and equality (which you can see here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S14QJcI4KNs). Just the other day I attended a panel on sexuality and race, and every single member of the panel had one thing in common—YouTube had allowed them to understand themselves and listen to the experiences of people just like them. Coming-out videos are a foundational piece of the YouTube community, and they’ve completely shaped the kind of people that make up YouTube’s consumer base. 
<br><br>
A boycott of YouTube began immediately, and many are claiming that the platform has met its end (http://heavy.com/news/2017/03/youtube-you-tube-lgbt-content-videos-restricted-mode-gay-restricting-is/). If you follow any angry Twitter thread, there will be a plethora of screenshots as various users delete the app. 
<br><br>
Most concerning of all is YouTube’s complete control of what messages are reaching consumers. As new users come to the platform and children search for their information on the Internet’s second largest search engine, their perceptions of the world depend on what they have access to (https://www.mushroomnetworks.com/infographics/youtube---the-2nd-largest-search-engine-infographic). If this content is restricted, it’s not only a step backward for the LGBTQ+ community, but for an open and equal Internet. 
<br><br>
The voices in media are what give it value, and deeming neutral content “inappropriate” based on the creator’s sexual orientation undermines all that YouTube seemed to be fighting for. 
